Hi and welcome back in this video we're talking about competition.
Competition is a common concept thrown around when people talk about object oriented programming and
it's really nothing confusing.
I'm just going to tell you in this video what it is so that when you do encounter it or somebody speaks
about it you know what they're talking about.
It's nothing really complicated.
Let's create a new file here in the O.P. folder.
I'm going to call it composition and I'm going to create a couple of classes that are going to be using
composition and really composition is probably what you would expect a class to be composed of other
classes.
I'm going to give the class leg that isn't going to do anything in the class back that isn't going to
do anything.
And then a class chan that in the neat method is going to take in a parameter numb legs.
So it's going to the change is going to have a number of legs.
The legs are going to be leg for leg in range and some legs and it's going to have a back which is going
to be a back object.
So what we're doing here is just saying give me a class called leg and a classical back.
I know they don't do anything yet.
And then a classical chair the chair takes him a number of legs as the method stretches three for example
and then it initialises.
So of the legs to be equal to a leg or object for each of the legs in that range.
So if we pass in theory this would be 3 leg objects in a list the back is going to be a back object
.
I'm also for the sake of completion design a wrapper method that is going to say return I have legs
and one back format lane itself legs.
OK.
So what this is going to do is say I have three legs and one back.
Right.
So if we print chat with five what would you expect there to be printed out
and hopefully the answer was I have five legs and one back.
So we're going to run this and that is indeed what we get.
Congratulations.
You have now used composition and as you can see there's nothing there to be feared.
The only thing we've done is we've composed a class chair out of two other classes leg and back.
That's what competition is it's making up one class out of many other classes.
Notice that we haven't to use inheritance because of a difference in how you would express this.
You use inheritance when the child is the parent.
For example let's go back to the intro here.
A currency is a decimal with an added symbol.
However a chair is not feeback a chair is not a leg.
A chair has legs and a chair has a back.
So that's where you use composition and that's how you can think about it.
And when it comes to designing your application just remember there's no need to use inheritance in
the here.
Even if the leg does things and at the back does things there's no need to use inheritance then because
a chair is not a back.
It contains a back.
So it should be a property.
And that's what competition is.
So that's everything for this video.
And hopefully you learned a bit about composition and remember to not be afraid.
If somebody talks about competition and if somebody says I used composition it's awesome.
It really isn't.
Competition is just something you do when you have to.
And that's it.
There's nothing magical or complex about it.
That's it for this video.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in the next one